# SCASbot - Massachusetts Small Claims Advisory Service Chatbot
Chatbot created for the [Harvard Small Claims Advisory Service](http://masmallclaims.org/). This chatbot serves as my final project submission for Suffolk University Law School's Coding the Law course.
 
Interact with the bot [here!]( https://beantownbrit.github.io/scaschatbot/)

# Framing
My partnering client for this project is the Small Claims Advisory Service at Harvard. During my initial meeting with the organization's co-directors, they expressed the difficulty faced by volunteers in maintaining timely responses to email and telephone queries from community members seeking legal resources on small claims matters. Community members come to SCAS with various issues across all stages of the small claims process, from filing suit to denfending against one. The main issue currently facing volunteers is the backlog generated by the contact form, direct emails, and voicemails that pile up over the semester (especially during exam periods), with response times often exceeding seven days. The co-directors were concerned that this lengthy response time was directly affecting both the organization's reputation with community members as well as student volunteer morale.
 
According to SCAS's 2019 community report, 58% of community members had expressed they would use a texting service if offered. For a small, student-led organization with a limited budget, SCAS does not have the financial resources to pay for a text relay service. Recognizing the community's strong interest in instantaneous communication, student volunteers with time constraints, and the organization's financial constraints, I proposed a comparable solution — a chatbot that would triage frequently occuring queries and direct community members to applicable resources, whether it be a basic FAQ response, direction to an informational resource, or a generated message that sent as an email to SCAS’s main inbox that contained the user’s issue and a chatlog for further assistance.
 
# Research
My first step was to consider the direct interest of the community and investigate free/low-cost text SMS bot platforms; this research did not identify any pre-existing services or creative platforms that would be within the organization's budget .  While my initial Google Voice does have a texting feature it violates Google's "System Interference and Abuse" provision of its [Terms of Service](https://www.google.com/googlevoice/program-policies.html). Additionally, as students are not allowed to use their personal numbers to respond to messages from community members, I ruled out text relay services entirely.

After thoroughly ruling out SMS-based solutions, I quickly shifted my research to chatbots, as I believed the bot would help the organization to provide resources to community members swiftly and without creating any unnecessary backlog. I began exploring the use of regular expressions in JavaScript to parse queries based on user input, but ultimately concluded that Markdown (using [QnA Markup](https://www.qnamarkup.org/)) would provide a more sustainable language framework for student volunteers to edit.
 
# Ideation & Prototyping
After creating a decision tree of frequently asked questions/responses/resources, I set out to code the chatbot. Before settling on QnA Markup, I created a simple chatbot with vanilla JavaScript that used regular expressions to assess user input and respond using a corresponding constant that contained either FAQ text, external resources, or contact information. Unfortunately, this prototype was a bit too "simple" and could not parse much nuance. I strategically chose to start building the chatbot using very basic syntax because I knew that anything too complex would defeat any good the bot contributed to reducing student volunteer workload. Upkeep of a more complicated system would be time-consuming for those who are unfamiliar with coding or regex.

Having been familiar with QnA Markup's user-friendly interface and quick ramp-up time, I chose to compare my JS bot with one created in QnA. It was immediately clear that the QnA bot would be a better fit for community members looking to access information quickly from their phones as well as for volunteers to edit easily and with minimal coding involved.

# User Testing & Refinement
Although it was clear upon my first test, I asked my partner to try each bot on his laptop. Out of five user queries each, the QnA bot was 5/5 and the JS bot was 1/5. This was a pretty clear indicator I should invest my efforts in the QnA bot. However, the final factor in making the switch was when I asked my partner to pull up the Github link on his phone and found that it was not formatting to mobile properly on either Safari or Chrome iOS. The switch was solidified when after hours of toying with the CSS styling, I could not get the JS bot to format on mobile in as accessible a format as needed. Considering that this was to be primarily a mobile-friendly solution in recognition of community needs, I felt this was a pretty important detrator.

As of this submission, the bot has undergone two iterations of end-user testing. The first iteration of the bot was shown to the co-directors over a Zoom meeting screen share. They were thrilled with the overall functionality of the bot and found it visually appealing. The second and current iteration allows users to access a live demo via on Github. Feedback on this iteration thus far has been extremely positive regarding responsiveness and applicability; one feature they expressed interest in seeing across user input was the "start over" button on the bottom.

Feedback from the first iteration regarding additional content taken from new updates to their website and text sizing was thoughtfully integrated. While still in progress, user testing of the bot's second iteration has generated more positive feedback and helpful comments.

# Intro Pitch
My [intro pitch](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jl1PyJD6qnVzsabswbl03yFIyGtriwfbM6fw0eIw7p0/edit?usp=sharing) described SCAS, its clients, and the problem its volunteers continue to face in responding to backlogged community requests for legal assistance. I described how the organization's current options were unsatisfactory, outlined my proposed chatbot solution, what my solution would attempt to alleviate (backlog), and what it would not replace (volunteers).
 
# Complexity/Robustness
I designed the chatbot as a stand-alone expert system using QnA Markup and customized its UI in CSS. Additionally, I integrated document automation into the chatbot — users can prepopulate an email to SCAS with a brief summary of their legal issue and a chatlog when selecting a contact method.
 
# Impact & Efficiencies
In providing over 1900 community members with a chatbot that instantaneously responds with substantive information, the organization saves time otherwise sunk into responding to repetitive queries. This substantial increase in efficiency selection allows 100+ volunteers to direct more immediate attention and greater resources toward more nuanced queries filtered through the bot as needing additional follow up.
 
# Fit/Completeness
The chatbot outputs predictable, stable, and appropriate responses to user input. Guided by best practices in [UX/UI](https://www.uxpin.com/studio/blog/guide-design-consistency-best-practices-ui-ux-designers/), I aimed to design a clean interface free from unnecessary information I was also deliberately mindful of web accessibility, and made sure to code equivalent alternative text for all images and opted for a static output that displays a user's full chat history.

# Documentation
The chatbot's initial output upon loading the site displays instructions to the user regarding its purpose and categories of knowledge. It also clearly indicates the entity behind the chatbot and a disclaimer on the bot's intended use. The internal structure continuously loops back to the main menu to ensure users can access the instructions at any point of interaction.

Additionally, the chatbot's [README](https://github.com/beantownbrit/scaschatbot) includes useful links for the Tech Director/volunteers who will be maintaining the chatbot.

# Real World Viability
I really enjoyed catering to this particular aspect of the project, as the chatbot directly addresses real-world access to justice needs by expanding the number of free online legal information tools. The chatbot solves the needs of both community members seeking basic information and volunteers reducing their responses to repetitive queries backlogging their inbox. The chatbot is ready to be integrated into the website, whether as a widget or an external link to Github. Any edits to the code can be easily accessed and made by the Tech Director or delegated volunteers without restrictions.

# Sustainability
At the end of each fall semester, SCAS holds elections for its officers. The co-directors I had been working with have put me in touch with their successors as well as the newly elected Tech Director. I had emailed his predecessor numerous times but was ultimately unsuccessful in speaking with him about website integration and sustainability. The new Tech Director will be responsible for the chatbot's upkeep, with co-directors ensuring appropriate cadence of maintenance and updates. One of the newly appointed co-directors has already emailed me and express excited interest in moving forward with implementation as well as noting the new Tech Director has previous experience with Github.
