# SCAS Chatbot
Chatbot created for the Harvard Small Claims Advisory Service. This chatbot serves as my final project submission for Suffolk University Law School's Coding the Law course.

<i>This is a [class project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GGvXXekg72rJxX5paeUXuqCct1X2IdOPpEAKsaggP_I/edit?usp=sharing). You should not rely on it as a source of legal information.</i>

[Ask the bot!](https://beantownbrit.github.io/scaschatbot/)

PROCESS

# Framing
My partnering client for this project is the Small Claims Advisory Service at Harvard. They had expressed difficulty in maintaining timely responses to their email and telephone queries and that the main issue facing volunteers is the backlog generated by the contact form, direct emails, and voicemails that pile up; it is often over a week before most of these are sent a response. This lengthy response time was directly affecting their reputation among community members as well as volunteer morale.
 
According to SCAS's 2019 community report, 58% of community members had expressed they would use a texting service if offered. For a small, student-led organization with a limited budget, SCAS does not have the financial resources to pay for a text relay service. Recognizing the community's strong interest in instantaneous communication, student volunteers with time constraints, and the organization's financial constraints, I proposed a comparable solution — a chatbot that would triage frequently occuring queries and direct community members to applicable resources — whether it be a basic FAQ response, direction to an informational resource, or a generated message that sent as an email to SCAS’s main inbox that contained the user’s issue and a chatlog for further assistance. 
